Northern Star (Lismore, NSW : 1876 - 1954), Monday 18 June 1917, page 4

LATE PRIVATE CECIL TULK
MEMORIAL SERVICE.
One of the most feeling and sympathetic tributes, to the dead was paid to the late Private Cecil R. W. Tulk when a memorial service, conducted by Rev. W. Redman was held at the Wyrallah Methodist Church yesterday morning. The young soldier, who was the son of Mr. James Tulk, of Byron Bay (late ot Wyrallah), died a short while ago in the hands of the enemy from wounds received at Pozieres. A large congregation attended, consisting chiefly of the relatives and friends of the deceased boy, and in response to an invitation there was a strong representation of officers and members of the Loyal Orange Lodge, I.O.G.T. Lodge and Pride of Lismore Lodge. The church, draped with dark purple and lilies, added to the solemnity of the ceremony. Several wreaths, gifts of the various lodges and the congregation, were also in evidence. The Rev. Mr. Redman's address was. deeply pathetic, and ringing true with sincerity and heartfelt sympathy, left hardly a dry eye in the church. Seldom was a memorial service conducted with more fitting feeling than this. 

During the reading Mr Redman remarked he had the honor of doing what he supposed few other clergymen had done, and that was reading prayer from the Bible of the boy for whom the service was being conducted. A Bible was a sacred thing at any time, but the sad circumstances which surrounded the Bible in his possessions made it even more sacred. Pte. Tulk purchased it in Egypt and wrote on the front page, “In the event of anything happening to me that may cause my death, it is my wish that this be sent to my mother.” The Bible was picked up on the battlefield and forwarded to the boy's mother.

 In his address Mr. Redman took for his text “Those stones. shall be a memorial for ever.”  The stones referred to in the text, he said, bore increasing testimony to the greatness of Almighty God. The memorial stones now lying on the rugged heights of Gallipoli, marking the graves of the brave Australian soldiers were memorials for ever. These landmarks would compare if not completely eclipse the glories of past generations, . They told a story, pathetic but yet sublime, and were memories of a manly response to the call of duty. . When war was declared, the then Prime Minister, Mr. Joseph Cook, cabled to the Imperial authorities that he would send 20,000 men from Australia to help the Empire. At the time the speaker was dubious whether Australia could, raise such a number. from a voluntary system, and many others thought the same way. But they were mistaken. Immediately the call came volunteers rushed to the colors from the length .and breadth of the Commonwealth , and not only was an army of 20,000 raised, but it went into hundreds of thousands of the best men in the land. When the first contingent left Australia a great many jibes were hurled at them. People said they were 6s a day holiday tourists at, the expense of the country. Their, loyalty was belittled. Today the little graves on the hills of Gallipoli and the blood drenched fields of France bore testimony to their undaunted courage and patriotism. The children of the coming generation would want to know the story and it was one that could gladly and proudly be told. Cecil Tulk followed 12 months after war had broken out. He had read and heard of the horrors of war and like others weighed the cost before making up his mind. It meant a sacrifice from all the happy associations at home, it meant many things, but the spirit of courage dominated and he. enlisted then only 18 years of age. Cecil. Tulk was born at Wyrallah on February 20th, 1897 and being born of worthy parents, had the advantage of a good Christian training, and in his early days he had laid the foundations of a strong, noble character. Though, always a quiet, good meaning, boy he had seen at the age of 15, the need for a definite decision on the side of Christianity and he then surrendered his life fo the Lord. Soon he had given the outward signs of his new life of devotion by the special interest he had manifested in the work of the church. At an early age he became a full member of the church and was faithful to its principles and teaching until the day of his death. As soon as age would permit he became a member of the Loyal Orange Lodge, the Lismore branch of the Protestant Alliance and the local Good Templars Lodge. So ardent was he in the latter cause and so highly thought of that he was chosen as its representative at the Grand Lodge sessions in Sydney in 1915. He would be long remembered by all those institutions for the devotion and zeal with which he fulfilled every duty. H that is faithful in that which is least is always entrusted with higher service, and so at the age of 18 Cecil heard the call to higher service for his country, and although he might have easily been excused on account of his youth, he was too manly to shirk what he felt to be every able bodied young man's duty, and so on July 6, 1915, he join-ed the Australian fighting forces, and on December 30 of the same year sailed for the front. He spent several months training in Egypt and from there wrote many interesting letters. He then proceeded to the Western front and soon received his baptism of fire.. His days were few in France, but he lived long enough to add another page to the volume of Australian heroism. His last and most valuable service for his country was rendered on the memorable morning of July 29, when he joined his brave comrades in that brilliant charge at Pozieres and with many others fell. When the roll was called on 31st he was numbered amongst the dead. Officialy reported missing by the authorities, many anxious months were spent waiting for further news. At last his parents received a letter from the father of the German soldier who had found him. It read when translated:- “Westerland Sytt, Schleswig Hol-stein. - Dear Mr. Tulk. — This is to inform you that your son, Cecil Tulk, met a hero's, death on the morning of July 29 through a wound in the neck, received at Pozieres. I and letting you know that it may be some consolation for you to know the truth instead of the uncertainty. My son carried him badly wounded to the dressing station, where he died while being attended to. He was unconscious, so my son was unable to speak to him. We gave him a good funeral and buried him under a tree close to Pozieres. His pocket book, papers. and two photos are in my son's possession and if you wish it I will forward them after the war. I wish to convey to you and your family my heartfelt sympathy Boy H. Boysen.” 

Proceeding, the Rev. Redman said : “Thus there passed away from our midst a young man of undaunted courage, of noble character and of sublime devotion to the King of Kings. He was bright and optimistic to the last and in all his letters home there was not one murmur or complaint. By his passing a great blank has been left in the home and in the army, but his name shall be written in the scroll of fame when the story of Australian heroism is told. We mourn his loss but are proud of his record.”

